Foreword
========

Read this before you get started with lilac. This introduces purpose
and goals of this project.

About the name 'lilac'
----------------------

'lilac' is '紫丁香' in Chinese, they are everywhere in my school(`HIT <http://www.hit.edu.cn>`_). They are beautiful!

Why another 'wheel'?
--------------------

There are so many similar tools already, why do you create a new one?

- I need one written in Python

- I need only tags, not categories.

- I like clean themes.

- It should be easy to configure.

And, a really big reason is:

- TOML_ fits to be its configuration language.

.. _TOML: https://github.com/mojombo/toml

Features
--------

Here is lilac's features, it's worth to take a look.

- TOML_ and GFM_ based.

- 100% in Python (any linux distribution comes with python)

- Built-in tags & feed & theme & codes highlighting support

- We use Jinja2_ to render templates.

- No categories, only tags. (It's A GOOD FEATURE!)

- Minimal configuration.

.. _GFM: http://github.github.com/github-flavored-markdown/
.. _Jinja2:  http://jinja.pocoo.org/2/


Libraries behind the back
-------------------------

You may want to check out this file to get the answer: `requirements.pip <https://github.com/hit9/lilac/blob/master/requirements.pip>`_

- misaka_: the python wrapper for sundown_ (Sundown is a markdown parser in C that runs really fast)
- Jinja2_: the famous templating engine for Python, comes from pocoo_.
- Pygments_: wide used python syntax highlighter.
- blinker_: an excellent signal library for Python.
- docopt_: a pythonic command line arguments parser, really an awesome library, it uses
  readable doc string to parse command arguments.
- toml.py_: a TOML language parser for Python, written by me.

.. _misaka: https://github.com/FSX/misaka
.. _sundown: https://github.com/vmg/sundown
.. _pocoo: http://pocoo.org
.. _blinker: http://discorporate.us/projects/Blinker/
.. _docopt: https://github.com/docopt/docopt
.. _toml.py: https://github.com/hit9/toml.py
.. _Pygments: http://pygments.org/

Demo Site
---------

What does a blog generated by lilac look like?

Here is a demo website generated by lilac: `Make Difference <http://lilac.hit9.org/>`_, and you may
want to see the source codes of the demo site: `Demo sites on github.com <https://github.com/hit9/lilac/tree/gh-pages>`_

Ready to start? See :ref:`Installation <install>`.
